[ADD] finance: avalara portal (#9167)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/taxes/avatax/avalara_portal.rst

.. _avatax_portal:

=======================
Avalara (Avatax) portal
=======================

Avalara's (*AvaTax*) management console offers account management options including viewing/editing
the transactions sent from Odoo to *AvaTax*, details on how the taxes are calculated, tax reporting,
tax exemption management, and tax return resources.

To access the console, first, navigate to either Avalara's `sandbox
<https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_ environment.
This will depend on which type of account was set in the :doc:`integration <../avatax>`.

.. _avalara_portal/transactions:

Transactions
============

Next, to access transactions, click in the :guilabel:`Transactions` link on the main dashboard upon

> logging into the :ref:`console <avatax_portal>`. To manually access the *Transactions* page, while

Reviewer: ```suggestion
logging into the Avatax :ref:`console <avatax_portal>`.

To manually access the *Transactions* page, while
```

I suggest adding which webpage you are in- I wasn't sure if it was odoo or the other here.

:guilabel:`Invoice detail`, :guilabel:`Additional info`, and :guilabel:`Customer info`. Click
:icon:`fa-pencil` :guilabel:`Edit document details` to make changes to the transaction.

A :guilabel:`Discount` can be added to adjust the invoice. This is especially useful in cases where
the transaction has already synced with Avalara / *AvaTax* and changes need to be made afterward.

.. _avalara_portal/filter:

Filter
------

Filter transactions by setting the :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To` fields, and configuring other
fields to filter by, including:

 - :guilabel:`Document Status`
 - :guilabel:`Document Code`
 - :guilabel:`Customer/Vendor Code`
 - :guilabel:`Country`
 - :guilabel:`Region`

Sort by
-------

On the *Transactions* page, transactions will be listed below according to the set
:ref:`avalara_portal/filter`, in the top half of the page. The following columns are available by
default, to sort by ascending or descending order:

 - :guilabel:`Doc Code`
 - :guilabel:`Doc Date`
 - :guilabel:`Doc Status`
 - :guilabel:`Cust/Vendor Code`
 - :guilabel:`Region`
 - :guilabel:`Amount`
 - :guilabel:`Not Taxed`

>  - :guilabel:`Tax`

Reviewer: I seea "Taxable' field by defaut- might want to check if that's a default view or not.

Additional columns can be added on by clicking the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`Customize columns`. On
the pop-over window, click the drop-down menu next for the :guilabel:`column` that should be
changed.

The following columns can be set to sort transactional data by:

 - :guilabel:`AvaTax calculated`
 - :guilabel:`Country`
 - :guilabel:`Cust/vendor code`
 - :guilabel:`Currency`
 - :guilabel:`Doc date`
 - :guilabel:`Doc status`
 - :guilabel:`Doc type`
 - :guilabel:`Import ID`
 - :guilabel:`Last modified`
 - :guilabel:`Location code`
 - :guilabel:`PO number`
 - :guilabel:`Reference code`
 - :guilabel:`Region`
 - :guilabel:`Salesperson code`
 - :guilabel:`Tax date`
 - :guilabel:`Tax override type`

To add a new *column* click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Column`.

Import-export
-------------

While on the :ref:`avalara_portal/transactions`, click :icon:`fa-download` :guilabel:`Import` or

> :icon:`fa-upload` :guilabel:`Export` to import or export transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:icon:`fa-upload` :guilabel:`Export transactions` to import or export transactions.
```

the buttons have 'transactions' so I thin it's more accurate to include that.

different tabs depending on the business need. The first tab is :guilabel:`Sales and use tax` where
tax can be collected for the United States. Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add to where you
collect sales and use tax` to add another location where the company collects sales and use tax.

The second option, is the :guilabel:`VAT / GST` tab where the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add a
country or territory where you collect VAT / GST` can be selected to add another country or
territory where the company collects VAT/GST.

Finally, on the far-right is the :guilabel:`Customs Duty` tab, where a country can be added where
the company collects customs duty. Simply click on the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add a country
where you calculate customs duty` icon below the tab.

.. image:: avalara_portal/where-you-collect-tax.png
   :align: center
   :alt: AvaTax management console, on the Where you collect tax page, with the add button and
         sales and use tax tab highlighted.

Tax exemption certificate
=========================

Tax exemption certificates for customers can be added into the Avalara management console so that

> *AvaTax* is aware of which customers may be exempt from paying certain taxes. To add an *exception

Reviewer: Just a general idea- what is the difference between Avalara and Avatax? It could be aded in the intro, something like "X is the parent cmpany, and Y is the program..." etc. I have NO idea which is what, but osmething liek that could clear up these words, because the names seem interchangebale/related but I am not sure how or why. Just a little extra nugget- could be a note or something at the top?

certificate* navigate to :menuselection:`Exemptions --> Customer certificates`. From there, click on
the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add a certificate` to configure an exemption.

.. warning::
   An Avalara subscription to Exemption Certificate Management (ECM) is required in order to attach
   certificate images and to be ready for an audit. For more on subscribing to this add-on contact
   `Avalara <https://www.avalara.com/us/en/index.html>`_.

End-of-year operations
======================

Avalara's services include tax return services, for when it is time to file taxes at the end of the
year. To access Avalara's tax services log into the `management portal
<https://admin.avalara.com/>`_ and on the main dashboard, click :guilabel:`Returns`. Avalara will
prompt the Avalara user to log in for security purposes and redirect the user to the *Returns*
portal.

> Click :guilabel:`Get started` to begin the tax return process.

Reviewer: is there an Avalara tax doc you can link ot htese instructions? Just because I saw you linked ot a diff doc earlier in the doc.

.. _avatax_portal:

=======================
Avalara (Avatax) portal
=======================

> Avalara's (*AvaTax*) management console offers account management options including viewing/editing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Avalara's (*AvaTax*) management console offers account management options including: viewing/editing
```

<https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_ environment.
This will depend on which type of account was set in the :doc:`integration <../avatax>`. Log in to
the management console.

.. image:: avalara_portal/avalara_portal.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Avalara dashboard after logging into management portal.

.. seealso::
   For more information see Avalara's documentation: `Activate your Communications Customer Portal
   account
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=qvv1656594440497&topicId=Activate_your_Communications_Customer_Portal_account.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

.. _avalara_portal/transactions:

Transactions
============

To access transactions, click in the :guilabel:`Transactions` link on the main dashboard upon
logging into the :ref:`avatax_portal`. To manually access the *Transactions* page, while logged into
the Avalara console, navigate to :menuselection:`Transactions --> Transactions`.

.. image:: avalara_portal/avalara_transactions.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Avalara portal with the transactions shortcut highlighted.

Edit transaction
----------------

> Click into a transaction to reveal more details about the transaction. These include sections on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click into a transaction to reveal more details about the transaction. These details include sections on
```

:guilabel:`Invoice detail`, :guilabel:`Additional info`, and :guilabel:`Customer info`. Click
:icon:`fa-pencil` :guilabel:`Edit document details` to make changes to the transaction.

A :guilabel:`Discount` can be added to adjust the invoice. This is especially useful in cases where

> the transaction has already synced with Avalara / *AvaTax* and changes need to be made afterward.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the transaction has already synced with Avalara / *AvaTax*, and changes need to be made afterward.
```

.. _avalara_portal/filter:

Filter
------

> Filter transactions by setting the :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To` fields, and configuring other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Filter transactions on the :guilabel:`Transactions` page, by setting the :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To` fields, and configuring other
```

fields to filter by, including:

>  - :guilabel:`Document Status` : either of the following options, :guilabel:`All`,
>    :guilabel:`Voided`, :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.
>  - :guilabel:`Document Code` : either of the following options, :guilabel:`Exactly match`,
>    :guilabel:`Starts with`, or :guilabel:`Contains`.
>  - :guilabel:`Customer/Vendor Code`: this is the customer/vendor code in Odoo (e.g. Contact18).
>  - :guilabel:`Country` : this is the country this tax was calculated in; this is a text field.
>  - :guilabel:`Region` : this is the region of the country, this will vary based on the
>    :guilabel:`Country` selection.
>  - :guilabel:`Document Type` : either of the following selections, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Sales
>    Invoice`, :guilabel:`Purchase Invoice`, :guilabel:`Return Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer
>    Inbound Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer Outbound Invoice`, or :guilabel:`Customs
>    Invoice`.
>  - :guilabel:`Import ID` : represents the import ID of the document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - :guilabel:`Document Status`: any of the following options, :guilabel:`All`,
   :guilabel:`Voided`, :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.
 - :guilabel:`Document Code : any of the following options, :guilabel:`Exactly match`,
   :guilabel:`Starts with`, or :guilabel:`Contains`.
 - :guilabel:`Customer/Vendor Code`: the customer/vendor code in Odoo (e.g. `Contact18`).
 - :guilabel:`Country`: the country this tax was calculated in; this is a text field.
 - :guilabel:`Region`: the region of the country, which varies based on the
   :guilabel:`Country` selection.
 - :guilabel:`Document Type`: any of the following selections, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Sales
   Invoice`, :guilabel:`Purchase Invoice`, :guilabel:`Return Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer
   Inbound Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer Outbound Invoice`, or :guilabel:`Customs
   Invoice`.
 - :guilabel:`Import ID`: represents the import ID of the document.
```
I'm not certain I am seeing the Document Type and Import ID options on the Transactions page (given the log info provided in the task) -- might be worth double-checking they are there during your revisions -- just to be safe 👍

Author: Noted, this is accessed by +Filters, I've added this in.

Sort by
-------

> On the *Transactions* page, transactions will be listed below according to the set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the :guilabel:`Transactions` page, transactions will be listed below, according to the set
```

> :ref:`avalara_portal/filter`, in the top half of the page. The following columns are available by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:ref:`avalara_portal/filter`, located in the top half of the page. The following columns are available by
```

default, to sort by ascending or descending order:

>  - :guilabel:`Doc Code` : either of the following options, :guilabel:`Exactly match`,
>    :guilabel:`Starts with`, or :guilabel:`Contains`.
>  - :guilabel:`Doc Status` : either of the following options, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Voided`,
>    :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.
>  - :guilabel:`Cust/Vendor Code` : this is the customer/vendor code in Odoo (e.g. Contact18).
>  - :guilabel:`Region` : this is the region of the country, this will vary based on the
>    :guilabel:`Country` selection.
>  - :guilabel:`Amount` : the numeric amount of the total amount on the Odoo document.
>  - :guilabel:`Tax` : the numeric amount of the tax applied to the total.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - :guilabel:`Doc Code`: any of the following options, :guilabel:`Exactly match`,
   :guilabel:`Starts with`, or :guilabel:`Contains`.
 - :guilabel:`Doc Status`: any of the following options, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Voided`,
   :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.
 - :guilabel:`Cust/Vendor Code`: the customer/vendor code in Odoo (e.g. `Contact18`).
 - :guilabel:`Region`: the region of the country, which varies based on the
   :guilabel:`Country` selection.
 - :guilabel:`Amount`: the numeric amount of the total amount on the Odoo document.
 - :guilabel:`Tax`: the numeric amount of the tax applied to the total.
```
just another friendly reminder to double-check the accuracy of these sort by columns, as I'm not sure I am seeing all of them on the sandbox you provided the credentials for... just a suggestion

Author: It saved some settings from when I accessed the site before, the documented sort by were default.

.. image:: avalara_portal/transactions.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Transactions page on the Avalara portal with the filter and sort-by options highlighted.

Customize columns
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Additional columns can be added on by clicking the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`Customize columns`. On

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional columns can be added by clicking the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`Customize columns`. On
```

> the pop-over window, click the drop-down menu next for the :guilabel:`column` that should be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the resulting popover window, click the drop-down menu for the :guilabel:`column` that should be
```

changed.

The following columns can be added for additional transactional information:

>  - :guilabel:`AvaTax calculated` : the amount of tax calculated by *AvaTax*.
>  - :guilabel:`Country` : this is the country this tax was calculated in; this is a text field.
>  - :guilabel:`Cust/vendor code` : this is the customer/vendor code in Odoo (e.g. Contact18).
>  - :guilabel:`Currency` : the standardized abbreviation for the currency the amount total is in.
>  - :guilabel:`Doc date` : the document's date of creation.
>  - :guilabel:`Doc status` : either of the following options, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Voided`,
>    :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.
>  - :guilabel:`Doc type` : either of the following selections, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Sales
>    Invoice`, :guilabel:`Purchase Invoice`, :guilabel:`Return Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer
>    Inbound Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer Outbound Invoice`, or :guilabel:`Customs
>    Invoice`.
>  - :guilabel:`Import ID` : represents the import ID of the document.
>  - :guilabel:`Last modified` : timestamp of the last time the document was modified.
>  - :guilabel:`Location code` : the location code used to calculate the tax based on the delivery
>    address.
>  - :guilabel:`PO number` : this is the purchase order number.
>  - :guilabel:`Reference code` : this is the Odoo reference code (e.g. NV/2024/00003)
>  - :guilabel:`Region` : this is the region of the country, this will vary based on the
>    :guilabel:`Country` selection.
>  - :guilabel:`Salesperson code` : this is the numeric ID of the user assigned to the sales order in
>    Odoo.
>  - :guilabel:`Tax date` : the month/day/year of the tax calculation.
>  - :guilabel:`Tax override type` : this is where an exemption would appear, should there be none,
>    the field populates with :guilabel:`None`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - :guilabel:`AvaTax calculated`: the amount of tax calculated by *AvaTax*.
 - :guilabel:`Country`: the country this tax was calculated in; this is a text field.
 - :guilabel:`Cust/vendor code`: the customer/vendor code in Odoo (e.g. `Contact18``).
 - :guilabel:`Currency`: the standardized abbreviation for the currency the amount total is in.
 - :guilabel:`Doc date`: the document's date of creation.
 - :guilabel:`Doc status`: any of the following options, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Voided`,
   :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.
 - :guilabel:`Doc type`: any of the following selections, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Sales
   Invoice`, :guilabel:`Purchase Invoice`, :guilabel:`Return Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer
   Inbound Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer Outbound Invoice`, or :guilabel:`Customs
   Invoice`.
 - :guilabel:`Import ID`: represents the import ID of the document.
 - :guilabel:`Last modified`: timestamp of the last time the document was modified.
 - :guilabel:`Location code`: the location code used to calculate the tax, based on the delivery
   address.
 - :guilabel:`PO number`: the purchase order number.
 - :guilabel:`Reference code`: the Odoo reference code (e.g. NV/2024/00003)
 - :guilabel:`Region`: the region of the country,which varies based on the
   :guilabel:`Country` selection.
 - :guilabel:`Salesperson code`: the numeric ID of the user assigned to the sales order in
   Odoo.
 - :guilabel:`Tax date`: the month/day/year of the tax calculation.
 - :guilabel:`Tax override type`: where an exemption would appear, should there be none,
   the field populates with :guilabel:`None`.
```

To add a new *column* click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Column`.

.. seealso::

>    For more information on *AvaTax* transactions see this Avalara documentation: `Transactions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   For more information on *AvaTax* transactions, refer to this Avalara documentation: `Transactions
```

   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=qvv1656594440497&topicId=transactions.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

Import-export
-------------

While on the :ref:`avalara_portal/transactions`, click :icon:`fa-download` :guilabel:`Import
transactions` or :icon:`fa-upload` :guilabel:`Export transactions` to import or export transactions.

Reports
-------

> To access reporting navigate to the :menuselection:`Reports` link in the top menu of the Avalara

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To access reporting, navigate to the :menuselection:`Reports` link in the top menu of the Avalara
```

> management console. Next, select from one of the available reporting tabs: :guilabel:`Transactions`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
management console. Next, select from one of the available reporting tabs: :guilabel:`Transactions reports`,
```

:guilabel:`Liability & tax return reports`, or :guilabel:`Exemption reports`.

.. seealso::
   Additionally, there is a :guilabel:`Favorites` tab and :guilabel:`Downloads` tab. The
   :guilabel:`Favorites` tab contains any favorited report configurations for the Avalara user. The
   :guilabel:`Downloads` tab contains a list view where the user can download the high-volume
   transaction reports created in the last 30 days.

> Make a selection for the :guilabel:`Report Category` and the :guilabel:`Report Name` under the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make a selection for the :guilabel:`Report Category`, and the :guilabel:`Report Name`, under the
```

:icon:`fa-star-o` :guilabel:`Make this report a favorite` to save the report configuration to the
user's favorites.

After the report is created, click :icon:`fa-download` :guilabel:`Download` to download the file to
the device.

.. tip::
   Select a pre-configured report from the :guilabel:`Frequently used reports` section of the
   reporting dashboard.

   Access this list by clicking on the :guilabel:`Reports` option in the top menu of the Avalara
   management console, and scroll to the bottom of the page.

.. seealso::
   `See Avalara's documentation: Reports in AvaTax
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=rjq1671176624730&topicId=Reports_in_AvaTax.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

Add more jurisdictions
======================

Additional jurisdictions (tax locations) can be added in the Avalara management console. Navigate to
either Avalara's `sandbox <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production
<https://admin.avalara.com/>`_ environment. This will depend on which type of account was set in the
:doc:`integration <../avatax>`.

Next, navigate to :menuselection:`Settings --> Where you collect tax`. Choose between the three

> different tabs depending on the business need. The first tab is :guilabel:`Sales and use tax` where

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
different tabs, depending on the business need. The first tab is :guilabel:`Sales and use tax`, where
```

tax can be collected for the United States. Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add to where you
collect sales and use tax` to add another location where the company collects sales and use tax.

The second option, is the :guilabel:`VAT/GST` tab where the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add a country
or territory where you collect VAT/GST` can be selected to add another country or territory where
the company collects VAT/GST.

> Finally, on the far-right is the :guilabel:`Customs duty` tab, where a country can be added where

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, on the far-right, is the :guilabel:`Customs duty` tab, where a country can be added where
```

the company collects customs duty. Simply click on the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add a country
where you calculate customs duty` icon below the tab.

.. image:: avalara_portal/where-you-collect-tax.png
   :align: center
   :alt: AvaTax management console, on the Where you collect tax page, with the add button and
         sales and use tax tab highlighted.

.. seealso::
   `See Avalara's documentation: Add local jurisdiction taxes
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=bla1700809896571_bla1700809896571&topicId=nbw1698727575499.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

Tax exemption certificate
=========================

> Tax exemption certificates for customers can be added into the Avalara management console so that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tax exemption certificates for customers can be added into the Avalara management console, so that
```

*AvaTax* is aware of which customers may be exempt from paying certain taxes. To add an *exception
certificate* navigate to :menuselection:`Exemptions --> Customer certificates`. From there, click on
the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add a certificate` to configure an exemption.

.. warning::
   An Avalara subscription to Exemption Certificate Management (ECM) is required in order to attach

>    certificate images and to be ready for an audit. For more on subscribing to this add-on contact

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   certificate images, and to be ready for an audit. For more on subscribing to this add-on, contact
```

   `Avalara
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=hff1682048150115_hff1682048150115&topicId=fol1682356576230.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

End-of-year operations
======================

Avalara's services include tax return services, for when it is time to file taxes at the end of the

> year. To access Avalara's tax services log into the `management portal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
year. To access Avalara's tax services, log into the `management portal
```

> <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_ and on the main dashboard, click :guilabel:`Returns`. Avalara will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<https://admin.avalara.com/>`_. Then, from the main dashboard, click :guilabel:`Returns`. Avalara will
```

> prompt the Avalara user to log in for security purposes and redirect the user to the *Returns*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
prompt the Avalara user to log in for security purposes, and redirect the user to the *Returns*
```

portal.

.. image:: avalara_portal/avalara_returns.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Avalara portal with the returns shortcut highlighted.

> Click :guilabel:`Get started` to begin the tax return process. See this Avalara documentation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click :guilabel:`Get started` to begin the tax return process. For more information, refer to this Avalara documentation:
```

> .. _avatax_portal:

Reviewer 3: To maintain convention with the other AvaTax doc custom anchors
```suggestion
.. _avatax/portal:
```

=======================
Avalara (Avatax) portal
=======================

Avalara's (*AvaTax*) management console offers account management options including: viewing/editing
the transactions sent from Odoo to *AvaTax*, details on how the taxes are calculated, tax reporting,
tax exemption management, and tax return resources.

.. tip::
   Avalara is the software developer of the tax software, *AvaTax*.

To access the console, first, navigate to either Avalara's `sandbox
<https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_ environment.
This will depend on which type of account was set in the :doc:`integration <../avatax>`. Log in to
the management console.

> .. image:: avalara_portal/avalara_portal.png

Reviewer 3: Please make sure all images are using hyphens and not underscores :)
```suggestion
.. image:: avalara_portal/avalara-portal.png
```

   :align: center
   :alt: Avalara dashboard after logging into management portal.

.. seealso::
   For more information see Avalara's documentation: `Activate your Communications Customer Portal
   account
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=qvv1656594440497&topicId=Activate_your_Communications_Customer_Portal_account.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

> .. _avalara_portal/transactions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. _avalara/portal-transactions:
```

Transactions
============

To access transactions, click in the :guilabel:`Transactions` link on the main dashboard upon
logging into the :ref:`avatax_portal`. To manually access the *Transactions* page, while logged into
the Avalara console, navigate to :menuselection:`Transactions --> Transactions`.

.. image:: avalara_portal/avalara_transactions.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Avalara portal with the transactions shortcut highlighted.

Edit transaction
----------------

Click into a transaction to reveal more details about the transaction. These details include
sections on :guilabel:`Invoice detail`, :guilabel:`Additional info`, and :guilabel:`Customer info`.
Click :icon:`fa-pencil` :guilabel:`Edit document details` to make changes to the transaction.

A :guilabel:`Discount` can be added to adjust the invoice. This is especially useful in cases where
the transaction has already synced with Avalara / *AvaTax*, and changes need to be made afterward.

> .. _avalara_portal/filter:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. _avalara/portal-filter:
```

Filter
------

Filter transactions on the :guilabel:`Transactions` page, by setting the :guilabel:`From` and
:guilabel:`To` fields, and configuring other fields to filter by, including:

- :guilabel:`Document Status`: any of the following options, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Voided`,
  :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.

> - :guilabel:`Document Code` : any of the following options, :guilabel:`Exactly match`,

Reviewer 3: Remove extra space :)
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Document Code`: any of the following options, :guilabel:`Exactly match`,
```

>  - :guilabel:`Document Status`: any of the following options, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Voided`,
>    :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.
>  - :guilabel:`Document Code` : any of the following options, :guilabel:`Exactly match`,
>    :guilabel:`Starts with`, or :guilabel:`Contains`.
>  - :guilabel:`Customer/Vendor Code`: the customer/vendor code in Odoo (e.g. `Contact18`).
>  - :guilabel:`Country`: the country this tax was calculated in; this is a text field.
>  - :guilabel:`Region`: the region of the country, which varies based on the :guilabel:`Country`
>    selection.

Reviewer 3: Scooch these bullet points back a space, no need for an indent. And remove space before colon on Document Code
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Document Status`: any of the following options, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Voided`,
  :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.
- :guilabel:`Document Code`: any of the following options, :guilabel:`Exactly match`,
  :guilabel:`Starts with`, or :guilabel:`Contains`.
- :guilabel:`Customer/Vendor Code`: the customer/vendor code in Odoo (e.g. `Contact18`).
- :guilabel:`Country`: the country this tax was calculated in; this is a text field.
- :guilabel:`Region`: the region of the country, which varies based on the :guilabel:`Country`
  selection.
```

Click :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Filters` to access the following filter conditions:

>  - :guilabel:`Document Type`: any of the following selections, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Sales
>    Invoice`, :guilabel:`Purchase Invoice`, :guilabel:`Return Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer
>    Inbound Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer Outbound Invoice`, or :guilabel:`Customs
>    Invoice`.
>  - :guilabel:`Import ID`: represents the import ID of the document.

Reviewer 3: Scooch back here too :)
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Document Type`: any of the following selections, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Sales
  Invoice`, :guilabel:`Purchase Invoice`, :guilabel:`Return Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer
  Inbound Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer Outbound Invoice`, or :guilabel:`Customs
  Invoice`.
- :guilabel:`Import ID`: represents the import ID of the document.
```

Sort by
-------

On the :guilabel:`Transactions` page, transactions will be listed below, according to the set
:ref:`avalara_portal/filter`, located in the top half of the page. The following columns are
available by default, to sort by ascending or descending order:

>  - :guilabel:`Doc Code` : either of the following options, :guilabel:`Exactly match`,
>    :guilabel:`Starts with`, or :guilabel:`Contains`.
>  - :guilabel:`Doc Status` : either of the following options, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Voided`,
>    :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.
>  - :guilabel:`Cust/Vendor Code` : this is the customer/vendor code in Odoo (e.g. Contact18).
>  - :guilabel:`Region` : this is the region of the country, this will vary based on the
>    :guilabel:`Country` selection.
>  - :guilabel:`Amount` : the numeric amount of the total amount on the Odoo document.
>  - :guilabel:`Tax` : the numeric amount of the tax applied to the total.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Doc Code`: either of the following options, :guilabel:`Exactly match`,
  :guilabel:`Starts with`, or :guilabel:`Contains`.
- :guilabel:`Doc Status`: either of the following options, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Voided`,
  :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.
- :guilabel:`Cust/Vendor Code`: this is the customer/vendor code in Odoo (e.g. Contact18).
- :guilabel:`Region`: this is the region of the country, this will vary based on the
  :guilabel:`Country` selection.
- :guilabel:`Amount`: the numeric amount of the total amount on the Odoo document.
- :guilabel:`Tax`: the numeric amount of the tax applied to the total.
```

.. image:: avalara_portal/transactions.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Transactions page on the Avalara portal with the filter and sort-by options highlighted.

Customize columns
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Additional columns can be added by clicking the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`Customize columns`. On the
resulting popover window, click the drop-down menu for the :guilabel:`column` that should be
changed.

The following columns can be added for additional transactional information:

>  - :guilabel:`AvaTax calculated`: the amount of tax calculated by *AvaTax*.
>  - :guilabel:`Country`: the country this tax was calculated in; this is a text field.
>  - :guilabel:`Cust/vendor code`: the customer/vendor code in Odoo (e.g. `Contact18`).
>  - :guilabel:`Currency`: the standardized abbreviation for the currency the amount total is in.
>  - :guilabel:`Doc date`: the document's date of creation.
>  - :guilabel:`Doc status`: any of the following options, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Voided`,
>    :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.
>  - :guilabel:`Doc type`: any of the following selections, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Sales
>    Invoice`, :guilabel:`Purchase Invoice`, :guilabel:`Return Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer
>    Inbound Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer Outbound Invoice`, or :guilabel:`Customs
>    Invoice`.
>  - :guilabel:`Import ID`: represents the import ID of the document.
>  - :guilabel:`Last modified`: timestamp of the last time the document was modified.
>  - :guilabel:`Location code`: the location code used to calculate the tax, based on the delivery
>    address.
>  - :guilabel:`PO number`: the purchase order number.
>  - :guilabel:`Reference code`: the Odoo reference code (e.g. NV/2024/00003)
>  - :guilabel:`Region`: the region of the country,which varies based on the :guilabel:`Country`
>    selection.
>  - :guilabel:`Salesperson code`: the numeric ID of the user assigned to the sales order in Odoo.
>  - :guilabel:`Tax date`: the month/day/year of the tax calculation.
>  - :guilabel:`Tax override type`: where an exemption would appear, should there be none, the field
>    populates with :guilabel:`None`.

Reviewer 3: Another scooch please :)
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`AvaTax calculated`: the amount of tax calculated by *AvaTax*.
- :guilabel:`Country`: the country this tax was calculated in; this is a text field.
- :guilabel:`Cust/vendor code`: the customer/vendor code in Odoo (e.g. `Contact18`).
- :guilabel:`Currency`: the standardized abbreviation for the currency the amount total is in.
- :guilabel:`Doc date`: the document's date of creation.
- :guilabel:`Doc status`: any of the following options, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Voided`,
  :guilabel:`Committed`, :guilabel:`Uncommitted`, or :guilabel:`Locked`.
- :guilabel:`Doc type`: any of the following selections, :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`Sales
  Invoice`, :guilabel:`Purchase Invoice`, :guilabel:`Return Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer
  Inbound Invoice`, :guilabel:`Inventory Transfer Outbound Invoice`, or :guilabel:`Customs
  Invoice`.
- :guilabel:`Import ID`: represents the import ID of the document.
- :guilabel:`Last modified`: timestamp of the last time the document was modified.
- :guilabel:`Location code`: the location code used to calculate the tax, based on the delivery
  address.
- :guilabel:`PO number`: the purchase order number.
- :guilabel:`Reference code`: the Odoo reference code (e.g. NV/2024/00003)
- :guilabel:`Region`: the region of the country,which varies based on the :guilabel:`Country`
  selection.
- :guilabel:`Salesperson code`: the numeric ID of the user assigned to the sales order in Odoo.
- :guilabel:`Tax date`: the month/day/year of the tax calculation.
- :guilabel:`Tax override type`: where an exemption would appear, should there be none, the field
  populates with :guilabel:`None`.
```

> To add a new *column* click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Column`.

Reviewer 3: I think you do without the formatting on column here :)
```suggestion
To add a new column click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Column`.
```

.. seealso::
   For more information on *AvaTax* transactions, refer to this Avalara documentation: `Transactions
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=qvv1656594440497&topicId=transactions.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

Import-export
-------------

While on the :ref:`avalara_portal/transactions`, click :icon:`fa-download` :guilabel:`Import
transactions` or :icon:`fa-upload` :guilabel:`Export transactions` to import or export transactions.

Reports
-------

To access reporting, navigate to the :menuselection:`Reports` link in the top menu of the Avalara
management console. Next, select from one of the available reporting tabs: :guilabel:`Transactions
reports`, :guilabel:`Liability & tax return reports`, or :guilabel:`Exemption reports`.

> .. seealso::

Reviewer 3: the seealso:: admonition is traditionally reserved for additional links, since there are no links in this I suggest using a different admonition block :)
```suggestion
.. tip::
```
